---
title: 'What Is GitHub Student Developer Pack? And Why You Should Get It'
image: 'https://res.cloudinary.com/dnha19v3n/image/upload/v1670345176/personal-blog/4b0317bc-4599-11e4-8bc3-0ca4dd5223e8_xdtfwb.webp'
providerUrl: 'v1670345176/personal-blog/4b0317bc-4599-11e4-8bc3-0ca4dd5223e8_xdtfwb.webp'
alt: 'The GitHub Student Developer Pack Logo'
date: 'December 06, 2022'
---

The GitHub Student Developer Pack is a program that provides students with access to a variety of developer tools and services for free. It is a great way to get started with your career as a developer.

## Table of Contents

- [What Are The Benefits Of The GitHub Student Developer Pack?](#what-are-the-benefits-of-the-github-student-developer-pack)
  - [1. Intro Into Web Dev Package](#1-intro-into-web-dev-package)
  - [2. Aspiring Creatives Package](#2-aspiring-creatives-package)
  - [3. Virtual Event Kit](#3-virtual-event-kit)
  - [4. Other Benefits](#4-other-benefits)
- [How To Get The GitHub Student Developer Pack](#how-to-get-the-github-student-developer-pack)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)


## What Are The Benefits Of The GitHub Student Developer Pack?

### 1. Intro Into Web Dev Package

Everything you need to build your next website. Learn how to design and build your own website as you learn the basics of web development. The Intro to Web Dev Experience gives students the tools to start you on a path, no matter how much experience or technical knowledge you currently have.

Offers include:

1. Cloud services on Microsoft Azure and DigitalOcean
2. Hosting on GitHub Pages
3. All JetBrains IDEs, including IntelliJ IDEA, PyCharm, and WebStorm
4. Courses from Educative.io

::Image
---
src: 'v1670356572/personal-blog/Capture_d_écran_2022-12-06_195338_f4eg0w.png'
alt: 'Intro Into Web Dev Package'
---
::

### 2. Aspiring Creatives Package

Working on a creative project? Develop your design and collaboration skills to get your clever intentions off the ground. Unleash your originality and start to tinker with the Aspiring Creatives Experience.

Offers include:

1. Figma for students
2. Premium icons from Icons8, Iconscout, and Octicons

::Image
---
src: 'v1670358327/personal-blog/Capture_d_écran_2022-12-06_202447_ioeokc.png'
alt: 'Aspiring Creatives'
---
::

### 3. Virtual Event Kit

Everything you need for your virtual event. Design for engagement and we'll take care of the tools. The Virtual Event Kit gives students the resources to make running online events simple and accessible.

Offers include:

1. Free domain name from Namecheap and Name.com
2. Streaming services from StreamYard to create a professional live stream

### 4. Other Benefits

There are other benefits that you can get from the GitHub Student Developer Pack. These include:

1. Twilio and Stripe subscription
2. Discounts on select arduino products
3. $50 in MongoDB Atlas Credits

::Image
---
src: 'v1670358482/personal-blog/Capture_d_écran_2022-12-06_202741_v159nt.png'
alt: 'Other Benefits'
---
::

You can check out the full list of benefits [here](https://education.github.com/pack/offers).

## How To Get The GitHub Student Developer Pack

To qualify for student benefits, you must:

1. Be currently enrolled in a degree or diploma granting course of study such as a high school, secondary school, college, university, homeschool, or similar educational institution.
2. Have a verifiable school-issued email address or upload documents that prove your current student status.
3. Have a GitHub user account.
4. Be at least 13 years old.

Complete the form [here](https://education.github.com/discount_requests/pack_application) to submit your application. Your submission will be reviewed and you will be notified via email if you have been approved.

## Conclusion

Enjoy the benefits of the GitHub Student Developer Pack and get started with your career as a developer.
If you liked this article, please share it with your friends and colleagues.
